Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about the prototype chain.
All right, so what is the prototype, can I have made a relatively bad drawing in here, but this is
going to prove my point.
We have a code snippet in this window and we have like a diagram that is going to show us how this code
is actually implemented.
OK, and it is going to also show us the prototypical chain or the prototype chain.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is it even says here the prototype chain I've written there, the prototype
chain.
All right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to zoom in and I hope it is visible for you guys now.
So before diving into this code and giving you the diagram for that code, we need to know and we need
to understand what happens on the line zero environment.
All right.
So we have a function, a very critical function, which is called object in JavaScript.
Now it has a capital O object.
Right.
And it has some methods on it, like object keys, object that values object entries.
We have talked about them in our Advanced Data Structures chapter.
That is actually a function.
It is not an object.
It has methods on it, but it's actually a function.
All right.
And here is the link for you.
This is the link to MDN.
All right.
So if you come here, you can read all about it.
What it what it is, what it has on it, how can it how it can be used.
All right.
So this is an object function, right.
And as as you can see here, this is actually a function.
All right.
And this object function is actually one of the ways of one of the ways that we can create objects in
JavaScript.
All right, so this is an object, an object function, and this is so before going forward, I need
to tell you that whenever you see circles, those are functions.
And when you see squares like this, even though this is not a square, this is a rectangle.
But you know what I mean.
When you see squares, they are objects.
When you see circles, they are functions.
So we have this very, very important function in JavaScript, which is called object.
Right.
And we have a very, very critical object in JavaScript as well.
In fact, it is so important in JavaScript that we actually don't have a name for it.
So this is an unnamed object.
This is not a function.
This is an object.
All of the non primitive data types, they descend from this MANGES object.
And you do you know how we named this?
We name it by the with the property that points at it.
So from this object function, there is a property that is pointing at this main JavaScript object and
that property is called Prototyp.
Right.
It is the same word that we have here.
And now you're getting OK.
What is the prototype chain water prototypes.
Why do we need to know and how by the end of this chapter you will understand, OK, how object oriented
programming works and how you can create instances of classes.
Right.
So how do we name this main JavaScript object is we name it with the property that is pointing at it.
The property that is pointing at it is called prototype.
All right.
I could go ahead and zoom, zoom in a bit more like here.
So I think this is good.
So the prototype property is the property that is pointing at this object.
So whenever we say something that prototype, what we actually mean is this main JavaScript object,
because something that prototype is the name of this object, whatever that thing is, in this case,
it is workshop.
We are going to get to the workshop later.
We are first.
We are in the line zero environment and then we are going to go into code execution environment.
Right.
But first we are here.
Now there is another property that is pointing from this main JavaScript object back to this object
function.
And that property is called a constructor right now.
This is actually how it works.
So we have I'm just going to go over this one more time.
So we have an object function and it has a property prototype that is pointing at the main JavaScript
object.
And this this object is so important that we don't have a name for it and we name it based on the property
that is pointing on it, pointing sorry, pointing at it.
And that property is.
So if I were to say workshop to type, what I actually mean is this workshop is our function and that
prototype is this object.
So we are actually whenever you say workshop that prototype, we are talking about the main JS object
because that is the name of this.
The name comes from whatever points on it.
Right.
So this is what happens in the line zero environment.
And now what we are going to do is we are going to come to the code execution environment.
I'm just going to say, how can I zoom out?
20 percent, very small.
So what now what I'm going to do is we are going to come down here and we are going to talk about the
code execution environment.
All right, so first off, what I'm going to do is we are going to go from from this workshop object
and we are going to go down and I'm going to explain to you how this diagram actually works.
So here we have a function, which is workshop.
All right.
So what I what I did was I just drew a circle and I just wrote workshop in it because this is a function.
And whenever you create this function, this object, which is the most important object in JavaScript,
which is so important that we don't have a name for it is created automatically.
All right.
For now, just go ahead and ignore this ask.
Right.
And from this workshop started from this workshop function, there is a property pointing at this object.
And that property is you guessed it right.
It is prototype.
And from this object, there is a property that is pointing back to this workshop and that is called
constructor.
And this constructor implies that the workshop function is a constructor of this object.
All right, and there is also a hidden linkage now when you see double lines, it means that this linkage
is hidden.
But there is some there is a link there.
Right.
But there is a link between this object that was created by the workshop that was created when the workshop
was instantiated.
This workshop and this object has a link to the main JavaScript object.
We are going to come back to this line later.
So what I'm going to do now is we are going to move past this.
All right.
And we are going to go down this diagram to see what else we can find inside our code that can be represented
inside the diagram.
So now what I'm going to do is we are going to come to this line where we have the new keyword.
We know what the new keyword is going to do.
The new keyword is going to do four things.
One, the new keyword is going to create a right, a brand new object.
This is the brand new object that we have here.
But before coming here, I just want to tell you what it why is this ask on this object?
So we know that this main object of JavaScript, it doesn't have a name, we name it by the property
that is pointing at it.
What is the property that is pointing at it?
This is prototype.
Whenever you tack something on to prototype, this is going to be passed inside this object.
All right.
So it doesn't matter what that is without got a method, which in this case it is a method or B that
like another property.
So this in this case ask is a function which doesn't really matter if it is a function or a property.
Whenever you say some function that prototype and you say dot anything that that anything is going to
be added to this main JavaScript object.
Right now, let's come back to this line.
Whenever the new keyword is run for things happen.
One, a brand new object is created.
This is the brand new object.
This object right here with the is it orange?
Yeah, I think it's yellow.
Dark yellow.
I'm not I'm not really good with colors.
All right.
So this brand new object is created right here.
That's the first thing.
The second thing that the new keyword does is it links this object to another object.
So it is going to link it to the main JavaScript object.
The third thing that the new keyword is going to do is it is going to invoke the the function, which
in this case is the workshop function.
Oops.
With the this keyword pointing at the object.
So in this case, this this key word has a property teacher and that property teacher is going to be
added to this object.
Now you can see that here we have a property teacher.
So this this key word that this key word in this case in line No.
Two points to this object.
And the fourth and final thing that the new keyword is going to do is whenever the function is called,
if the function doesn't return an object, which in this case it doesn't.
The new keyword assumes that you meant to return, that this keyword and this is the this keyword is
pointing to this object, that's why the new keyword is going to return.
So this object is then going to be called what it is going to be called JASE'S.
So now that this part is clear, this other part of Jianguo should be clear as well.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going to go again.
I'm just going to explain it one more time.
So it's really concrete.
So unlike number 10 in here, we have a new keyword and the new keyword is going to do four things.
One, it is going to create a brand new object.
Hence we have a square here.
Second thing, it is going to link it.
This is a hidden linkage.
It is not obvious to us, but it is there.
It is going to link it to another object.
In this case, it is going to be the main JSS object.
All right, and then what invokes the function it it invokes the function with the this key word pointing
at the newly created object.
So what is what is the property that the this keyword has?
The property is teacher.
So the teacher property is going to be added to the brand new object.
And fourth and final thing is when the new keyword is put in front of a function and when that function
is run or is called or is invoked, if that function doesn't return an object, which in this case it
doesn't, that this the new keyword is going to assume that you meant to return, that this key word.
And what is the this keyword pointing out that this key word is pointing at this object.
So the new keyword is going to return this object, which is called Jianguo.
All right.
So so far we know all this.
And what we are going to do next is.
Come to line number 12 and what do we want to do here is we want to grab this juice object and we want
to and we want to invoke this function on, OK, now, if we come to our diagram, can we see do we
have any aske function on this JS object?
No, we don't have it.
So how it is that we can invoke this aske method on this Java Geass object and this G.S. object doesn't
have the Aske method or the Aske function on it.
So because of this internal hidden linkage, which is also called the prototype chain, what we have
is what the behavior or the default behavior is.
Whenever we cannot find a method or a property on an object, we go one level up, we go to the next
object in the chain and what is the next object in the chain?
This is the object in the chain.
And we ask that object, do you have an ask method on you?
And this object is going to say yes and we are going to invoke that function and this aske function
is going to be invoked.
Now, this aske function, it also has a this key word on it.
What do you think the this keyword is going to be pointing at in this case?
OK, I'm sure you got the answer correct, but for me to be able to tell you, we have to go step by
step.
So whenever we want to find out whether this keyword is pointing out, we need to go to the side, whereas
the car side inside is line number 12.
OK, we found the Aske method right here, but the car side is this JSS object, right?
So whenever we call that function on the Jayce object, what is the this keyword is going to be pointing
out that this keyword is going to be pointing at at this object, the object that is called G.S..
What is Disvalue?
That's irrelevant.
But in case you're wondering, it's going to be the steady and in the case of Jianguo object, it is
going to be this, John.
So I'm going to go I'm going to explain this one more time for Jianguo, and I'm sure you will understand
it.
So we have an internal hidden linkage, which is called the prototype chain.
Why we call it the prototype chain and why is it important is because whenever we call a function or
a method on an object and that object doesn't have that function in this case, the Jango object doesn't
have an ASC function on it.
When we call it on this function and when we cannot find it, we go one level up the chain, the prototype
chain.
So this to our prototype change and we go to the next object in Chinta, to the top object in chain.
And what is the next object enchained?
That is the this is the unnamed or the workshop, that prototype object.
Right.
And we ask this object, do you have an ASC method on you?
And the Aske object is going to say yes and we are going to invoke it.
I mean, this Jianguo object is going to invoke it and within what when it invokes it, what is the
this keyword is going to point it for us to be able to identify what the this keyword is going to be
pointing out.
We need to go to the car site.
Where is the car side considers line number 13 in my case.
All right.
And when we go to the car side, we can see that that this keyword is going to be pointing at this object
because the ASC function was called on the Jianguo object.
We know that Jianguo is an object.
We can see that right here, this visual representation, it is an object.
And when it invokes the aske function and it goes wonderful up to the prototype chain, it invokes the
aske function that this keyword of the aske function is going to be pointing this Jianguo object.
Right.
And what is the value in this case?
It is going to be John so.
Well you know what, I'm just going to go ahead and change this to description just just that.
All right.
So this is how all these work and if I were to just go ahead and save this code and come in here, we
can see that it's a steady is great teacher.
John is also a great teacher.
All right, so we are done here.
All right, but at the end, what I want to say is that this is actually a fantastic system because
we have one method, OK?
That is the Aske method.
And we can call like potentially like 100 instances of this aske method.
So the method can be called on the JS object.
It can be called on the Django object, it can be called in like on many like it can can be called on
like 10 or 15 or 100 other instances of this aske method.
So this is a fantastic system.
And I just want to say that whenever we want to find out what the this keyword is going to be pointing
out, we need to go to the we need to go to the call site.
All right.
And it doesn't matter where you find the function.
So in this case, we found the function of the prototype chain.
But it doesn't matter where the function is.
You should always go to the call site and you should see what that function is being called in and what
is the context in which that function is being called.
So in the case of the aske function is being called in the context of G.S. and in the case of Jianguo,
the ASC function as is being called in the context of Django.
Right.
And also this link, this hidden link is also a prototype chain.
So that that is going to be it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.